---!p
{1} And they brought in the ark of God and placed it inside the tent which David had pitched for it, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God. {2} When David had finished offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of YHWH. {3} Then he distributed to everyone of Israel, both men and women, to everyone a loaf of bread, a portion of meat, and a raisin cake.

---!p
{4} He appointed some of the Levites as ministers before the ark of YHWH, to celebrate and to thank and praise YHWH God of Israel: {5} Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, then Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, with musical instruments, harps, and lyres; also Asaph played loud-sounding cymbals, {6} and the priests Benaiah and Jahaziel blew trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.

---!p
{7} Then on that day David first assigned Asaph and his relatives to give thanks to YHWH.

---!q
{8} Give thanks to YHWH, call upon His [[shem|name]];
Make His deeds known among the peoples.
{9} Sing to Him, sing praises to Him;
Speak of all His wonders.
{10} Boast in His holy [[shem|name]];
Let the heart of those who seek YHWH be joyful.
{11} Seek YHWH and His strength;
Seek His face continually.
{12} Remember His wonderful deeds which He has done,
His marvels and the judgments from His mouth,
{13} You descendants of Israel His servant,
Sons of Jacob, His chosen ones!
{14} He is YHWH our God;
His judgments are in all the earth.
{15} Remember His covenant forever,
The word which He commanded to a thousand generations,
{16} The covenant which He made with Abraham,
And His oath to Isaac.
{17} He also confirmed it to Jacob as a statute,
To Israel as an everlasting covenant,
{18} Saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan,
As the portion of your inheritance.”
{19} When they were only a few in number,
Very few, and strangers in it,
{20} And they wandered from nation to nation,
And from one kingdom to another people,
{21} He allowed no one to oppress them,
And He rebuked kings for their sakes, saying,
{22} “Do not touch My anointed ones,
And do not harm My prophets.”
{23} Sing to YHWH, all the earth;
Proclaim good news of His salvation from day to day.
{24} Tell of His glory among the nations,
His wonderful deeds among all the peoples.
{25} For great is YHWH, and greatly to be praised;
He also is to be feared above all gods.
{26} For all the gods of the peoples are idols,
But YHWH made the heavens.
{27} Splendor and majesty are before Him,
Strength and joy are in His place.
{28} Ascribe to YHWH, you families of the peoples,
Ascribe to YHWH glory and strength.
{29} Ascribe to YHWH the glory due His [[shem|name]];
Bring an offering, and come before Him;
Worship YHWH in holy attire.
{30} Tremble before Him, all the earth;
Indeed, the world is firmly established, it will not be moved.
{31} Let the heavens be joyful, and the earth rejoice;
And let them say among the nations, “YHWH reigns.”
{32} Let the sea roar, and everything it contains;
Let the field rejoice, and everything that is in it.
{33} Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy in the presence of YHWH;
For He is coming to judge the earth.
{34} Give thanks to YHWH, for He is good;
For His faithfulness is everlasting.
{35} Then say, “Save us, God of our salvation,
And gather us and save us from the nations,
To give thanks to Your holy [[shem|name]],
And glory in Your praise.”
{36} Blessed be YHWH, the God of Israel,
From everlasting to everlasting!

---!p
Then all the people said, “Amen,” and praised YHWH.