---!p
{1} Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. {2} By this you know the Spirit of God: every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God; {3} and every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God; this is the spirit of the antichrist, which you have heard is coming, and now it is already in the world. {4} You are from God, little children, and have overcome them; because greater is He who is in you than he who is in the world. {5} They are from the world, therefore they speak as from the world, and the world listens to them. {6} We are from God. The one who knows God listens to us; the one who is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error.

---!p
{7} Beloved, let’s [[agapao|love]] one another; for [[agapao|love]] is from God, and everyone who [[agapao|loves]] has been born of God and knows God. {8} The one who does not [[agapao|love]] does not know God, because God is [[agapao|love]]. {9} By this the [[agapao|love]] of God was revealed in us, that God has sent His only Son into the world so that we may live through Him. {10} In this is [[agapao|love]], not that we [[agapao|loved]] God, but that He [[agapao|loved]] us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. {11} Beloved, if God so [[agapao|loved]] us, we also ought to [[agapao|love]] one another. {12} No one has ever seen God; if we [[agapao|love]] one another, God remains in us, and His [[agapao|love]] is perfected in us. {13} By this we know that we remain in Him and He in us, because He has given to us of His Spirit. {14} We have seen and testify that the Father has sent the Son to be the Savior of the world.

---!p
{15} Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God remains in him, and he in God. {16} We have come to know and have believed the [[agapao|love]] which God has for us. God is [[agapao|love]], and the one who remains in [[agapao|love]] remains in God, and God remains in him. {17} By this, [[agapao|love]] is perfected with us, so that we may have confidence in the day of judgment; because as He is, we also are in this world. {18} There is no fear in [[agapao|love]], but perfect [[agapao|love]] drives out fear, because fear involves punishment, and the one who fears is not perfected in [[agapao|love]]. {19} We [[agapao|love]], because He first [[agapao|loved]] us. {20} If someone says, “I [[agapao|love]] God,” and yet he hates his brother or sister, he is a liar; for the one who does not [[agapao|love]] his brother and sister whom he has seen, cannot [[agapao|love]] God, whom he has not seen. {21} And this commandment we have from Him, that the one who [[agapao|loves]] God must also [[agapao|love]] his brother and sister.