---!p
{1} Now Solomon decided to build a house for the [[shem|name]] of YHWH, and a royal palace for himself. {2} So Solomon assigned seventy thousand men to carry loads, eighty thousand men to quarry stone in the mountains, and 3,600 to supervise them.

---!p
{3} Then Solomon sent word to Huram the king of Tyre, saying, “As you dealt with my father David and sent him cedars to build him a house to live in, do it for me. {4} Behold, I am about to build a house for the [[shem|name]] of YHWH my God, dedicating it to Him, to burn fragrant incense before Him and to set out the showbread continually, and to offer burnt offerings morning and evening, on Sabbaths, on new moons, and on the appointed feasts of YHWH our God. This is to be done in Israel forever. {5} The house which I am about to build will be great, for our God is greater than all the gods. {6} But who is able to build a house for Him, since the heavens and the highest heavens cannot contain Him? And who am I, that I should build a house for Him, except to burn incense before Him? {7} Now send me a skilled man to work in gold, silver, brass, iron, and in purple, crimson, and violet fabrics, one who knows how to make engravings, to work with the skilled workers whom I have in Judah and Jerusalem, whom my father David provided. {8} Send me also cedar, juniper, and algum timber from Lebanon, for I know that your servants know how to cut timber of Lebanon; and indeed my servants will work with your servants, {9} to prepare timber in abundance for me, for the house which I am about to build will be great and wonderful. {10} Now behold, I will give your servants, the woodsmen who cut the timber, twenty thousand kors of crushed wheat, twenty thousand kors of barley, twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty thousand baths of oil.”

---!p
{11} Then Huram, king of Tyre, answered in a letter sent to Solomon: “Because YHWH [[ahavah|loves]] His people, He has made you king over them.” {12} Then Huram continued, “Blessed be YHWH, the God of Israel, who made heaven and earth, who has given King David a wise son, endowed with discretion and understanding, who will build a house for YHWH and a royal palace for himself.