---!p
{1} Then He said to me, “Son of man, eat what you find; eat this scroll, and go, speak to the house of Israel.” {2} So I opened my mouth, and He fed me this scroll. {3} And He said to me, “Son of man, feed your stomach and fill your body with this scroll which I am giving you.” Then I ate it, and it was as sweet as honey in my mouth.

---!p
{4} Then He said to me, “Son of man, go to the house of Israel and speak with My words to them. {5} For you are not being sent to a people of unintelligible speech or difficult language, but to the house of Israel, {6} nor to many peoples of unintelligible speech or difficult language, whose words you cannot understand. But I have sent you to the people who understand you; {7} yet the house of Israel will not be willing to listen to you, since they are not willing to listen to Me. The entire house of Israel certainly is stubborn and obstinate. {8} Behold, I have made your face just as hard as their faces, and your forehead just as hard as their foreheads. {9} Like emery harder than flint I have made your forehead. Do not be afraid of them or be dismayed before them, since they are a rebellious house.” {10} Moreover, He said to me, “Son of man, take into your heart all My words which I will speak to you and listen closely. {11} Go to the exiles, to the sons of your people, and speak to them and tell them, whether they listen or not, ‘This is what the Lord God says.’”

---!p
{12} Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard a great rumbling sound behind me: “Blessed be the glory of the Lord from His place!” {13} And I heard the sound of the wings of the living beings touching one another and the sound of the wheels beside them, even a great rumbling sound. {14} So the Spirit lifted me up and took me away; and I went embittered in the rage of my spirit, and the hand of the Lord was strong on me.