---!p
{1} Now the two angels came to Sodom in the evening as Lot was sitting at the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he stood up to meet them and bowed down with his face to the ground. {2} And he said, “Now behold, my lords, please turn aside into your servant’s house, and spend the night, and wash your feet; then you may rise early and go on your way.” They said, “No, but we shall spend the night in the public square.” {3} Yet he strongly urged them, so they turned aside to him and entered his house; and he prepared a feast for them and baked unleavened bread, and they ate. {4} Before they lay down, the men of the city—the men of Sodom—surrounded the house, both young and old, all the people from every quarter; {5} and they called to Lot and said to him, “Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us that we may have relations with them.” {6} But Lot went out to them at the doorway, and shut the door behind him, {7} and said, “Please, my brothers, do not act wickedly. {8} Now look, I have two daughters who have not had relations with any man; please let me bring them out to you, and do to them whatever you like; only do not do anything to these men, because they have come under the shelter of my roof.” {9} But they said, “Get out of the way!” They also said, “This one came in as a foreigner, and already he is acting like a judge; now we will treat you worse than them!” So they pressed hard against Lot and moved forward to break the door. {10} But the men reached out their hands and brought Lot into the house with them, and shut the door. {11} Then they struck the men who were at the doorway of the house with blindness, from the small to the great, so that they became weary of trying to find the doorway.