---!p
{43} Then Laban replied to Jacob, “The daughters are my daughters, the children are my grandchildren, the flocks are my flocks, and everything that you see is mine. But what can I do this day to these daughters of mine or to their children to whom they have given birth? {44} So now come, let’s make a covenant, you and I, and it shall be a [[eid|witness]] between you and me.” {45} Then Jacob took a stone and set it up as a memorial stone. {46} Jacob said to his relatives, “Gather stones.” So they took stones and made a heap, and they ate there by the heap. {47} Now Laban called it Jegar-sahadutha, but Jacob called it Galeed. {48} Laban said, “This heap is a [[eid|witness]] between you and me this day.” Therefore it was named Galeed, {49} and Mizpah, for he said, “May YHWH keep watch between you and me when we are absent one from the other. {50} If you mistreat my daughters, or if you take wives besides my daughters, although no one is with us, see, God is [[eid|witness]] between you and me.” {51} Laban also said to Jacob, “Behold this heap and behold the memorial stone which I have set between you and me. {52} This heap is a [[eid|witness]], and the memorial stone is a [[eid|witness]], that I will not pass by this heap to you for harm, and you will not pass by this heap and this memorial stone to me, for harm. {53} The God of Abraham and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge between us.” So Jacob swore by the fear of his father Isaac. {54} Then Jacob offered a sacrifice on the mountain, and called his relatives to the meal; and they ate the meal and spent the night on the mountain.