---!p
{1} Therefore, six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. {2} So they made Him a dinner there, and Martha was serving; and Lazarus was one of those reclining at the table with Him. {3} Mary then took a pound of very expensive perfume of pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped His feet with her hair; and the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. {4} But Judas Iscariot, one of His disciples, the one who intended to betray Him, *said, {5} “Why was this perfume not sold for three hundred denarii and the proceeds given to poor people?” {6} Now he said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and as he kept the money box, he used to steal from what was put into it. {7} Therefore Jesus said, “Leave her alone, so that she may keep it for the day of My burial. {8} For you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have Me.”

---!p
{9} The large crowd of the Jews then learned that He was there; and they came, not on account of Jesus only, but so that they might also see Lazarus, whom He raised from the dead. {10} But the chief priests planned to put Lazarus to death also, {11} because on account of him many of the Jews were going away and were believing in Jesus.

---!p
{12} On the next day, when the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, {13} they took the branches of the palm trees and went out to meet Him, and began shouting, “Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the [[onoma|name]] of the Lord, indeed, the King of Israel!” {14} Jesus, finding a young donkey, sat on it; as it is written: {15} “Do not fear, daughter of Zion; behold, your King is coming, seated on a donkey’s colt.” {16} These things His disciples did not understand at the first; but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written of Him, and that they had done these things for Him. {17} So the people, who were with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead, continued to testify about Him. {18} For this reason also the people went to meet Him, because they heard that He had performed this sign. {19} So the Pharisees said to one another, “You see that you are not accomplishing anything; look, the world has gone after Him!”

---!p
{20} Now there were some Greeks among those who were going up to worship at the feast; {21} these people then came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and were making a request of him, saying, “Sir, we wish to see Jesus.” {22} Philip came and told Andrew; then Andrew and Philip came and told Jesus. {23} But Jesus answered them by saying, “The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. {24} Truly, truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit. {25} The one who loves his life loses it, and the one who hates his life in this world will keep it to eternal [[zoe|life]]. {26} If anyone serves Me, he must follow Me; and where I am, there My servant will be also; if anyone serves Me, the Father will honor him.

---!p
{27} “Now My soul has become troubled; and what am I to say? ‘Father, save Me from this hour’? But for this purpose I came to this hour. {28} Father, glorify Your [[onoma|name]].” Then a voice came out of heaven: “I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.” {29} So the crowd who stood by and heard it were saying that it had thundered; others were saying, “An angel has spoken to Him!” {30} Jesus responded and said, “This voice has not come for My sake, but for yours. {31} Now judgment is upon this world; now the ruler of this world will be cast out. {32} And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to Myself.” {33} Now He was saying this to indicate what kind of death He was going to die. {34} The crowd then answered Him, “We have heard from the Law that the Christ is to remain forever; and how is it that You say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up’? Who is this Son of Man?” {35} So Jesus said to them, “For a little while longer the Light is among you. Walk while you have the Light, so that darkness will not overtake you; also, the one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. {36} While you have the Light, believe in the Light, so that you may become sons of Light.”