---!p
{35} Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of [[zoe|life]]; the one who comes to Me will not be hungry, and the one who believes in Me will never be thirsty. {36} But I said to you that you have indeed seen Me, and yet you do not believe. {37} Everything that the Father gives Me will come to Me, and the one who comes to Me I certainly will not cast out. {38} For I have come down from heaven, not to do My own will, but the will of Him who sent Me. {39} And this is the will of Him who sent Me, that of everything that He has given Me I will lose nothing, but will raise it up on the last day. {40} For this is the will of My Father, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in Him will have eternal [[zoe|life]], and I Myself will raise him up on the last day.”

---!p
{41} So then the Jews were complaining about Him because He said, “I am the bread that came down out of heaven.” {42} And they were saying, “Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does He now say, ‘I have come down out of heaven’?” {43} Jesus answered and said to them, “Stop complaining among yourselves. {44} No one can come to Me unless the Father who sent Me draws him; and I will raise him up on the last day. {45} It is written in the Prophets: ‘And they shall all be taught of God.’ Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father, comes to Me. {46} Not that anyone has seen the Father, except the One who is from God; He has seen the Father. {47} Truly, truly, I say to you, the one who believes has eternal [[zoe|life]]. {48} I am the bread of [[zoe|life]]. {49} Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. {50} This is the bread that comes down out of heaven, so that anyone may eat from it and not die. {51} I am the living bread that came down out of heaven; if anyone eats from this bread, he will [[zao|live]] forever; and the bread which I will give for the [[zoe|life]] of the world also is My flesh.”

---!p
{52} Then the Jews began to argue with one another, saying, “How can this man give us His flesh to eat?” {53} So Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His [[haima|blood]], you have no [[zoe|life]] in yourselves. {54} The one who eats My flesh and drinks My [[haima|blood]] has eternal [[zoe|life]], and I will raise him up on the last day. {55} For My flesh is true food, and My [[haima|blood]] is true drink. {56} The one who eats My flesh and drinks My [[haima|blood]] remains in Me, and I in him. {57} Just as the living Father sent Me, and I [[zao|live]] because of the Father, the one who eats Me, he also will [[zao|live]] because of Me. {58} This is the bread that came down out of heaven, not as the fathers ate and died; the one who eats this bread will [[zao|live]] forever.”

---!p
{59} These things He said in the synagogue as He taught in Capernaum.

---!p
{60} So then many of His disciples, when they heard this, said, “This statement is very unpleasant; who can listen to it?” {61} But Jesus, aware that His disciples were complaining about this, said to them, “Is this offensive to you? {62} What then if you see the Son of Man ascending to where He was before? {63} It is the Spirit who gives [[zoe|life]]; the flesh provides no benefit; the words that I have spoken to you are spirit, and are [[zoe|life]]. {64} But there are some of you who do not believe.” For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe, and who it was who would betray Him. {65} And He was saying, “For this reason I have told you that no one can come to Me unless it has been granted him from the Father.”

---!p
{66} As a result of this many of His disciples left, and would no longer walk with Him. {67} So Jesus said to the twelve, “You do not want to leave also, do you?” {68} Simon Peter answered Him, “Lord, to whom shall we go? You have words of eternal [[zoe|life]]. {69} And we have already believed and have come to know that You are the Holy One of God.”