---!p
{1} “To the angel of the church in Sardis write:

---!p
He who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars, says this: ‘I know your deeds, that you have a name that you are alive, and yet you are dead. {2} Be constantly alert, and strengthen the things that remain, which were about to die; for I have not found your deeds completed in the sight of My God. {3} So remember what you have received and heard; and keep it, and repent. Then if you are not alert, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come to you. {4} But you have a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their garments; and they will walk with Me in white, for they are worthy. {5} The one who overcomes will be clothed the same way, in white garments; and I will not erase his name from the book of life, and I will confess his name before My Father and before His angels. {6} The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’

---!p
{7} “And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write:

---!p
He who is holy, who is true, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, and who shuts and no one opens, says this:

---!p
{8} ‘I know your deeds. Behold, I have put before you an open door 
which no one can shut, because you have a little power, and have 
followed My word, and have not denied My name. {9} Behold, I will 
make those of the synagogue of Satan, who say that they are Jews 
and are not, but lie—I will make them come and bow down before 
your feet, and make them know that I have loved you. {10} Because 
you have kept My word of perseverance, I also will keep you from 
the hour of the testing, that hour which is about to come upon the 
whole world, to test those who live on the earth. {11} I am coming 
quickly; hold firmly to what you have, so that no one will take 
your crown. {12} The one who overcomes, I will make him a pillar 
in the temple of My God, and he will not go out from it anymore; 
and I will write on him [[bear-the-name|the name of My God]], and the 
name of the city of My God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from My God, and My new name. {13} The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’

---!p
{14} “To the angel of the church in Laodicea write:

---!p
The Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the Origin of the creation of God, says this:

---!p
{15} ‘I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot; I wish 
that you were cold or hot. {16} So because you are lukewarm, and 
neither hot nor cold, I will vomit you out of My mouth. {17} 
Because you say, “I am rich, and have become wealthy, and have no 
need of anything,” and you do not know that you are wretched, 
miserable, poor, blind, and naked, {18} I advise you to buy from 
Me gold refined by fire so that you may become rich, and white 
garments so that you may clothe yourself and the shame of your 
nakedness will not be revealed; and eye salve to apply to your 
eyes so that you may see. {19} [[wisdom-rebuke|Those whom I love, I rebuke and discipline]]; therefore be zealous and repent. {20} Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if anyone hears My voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and will dine with him, and he with Me. {21} The one who overcomes, I will grant to him to sit with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat with My Father on His throne. {22} The one who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’”
